>> Maximiliano Firtman: Safe areas,
this is a problem that we
already have in our app.
By default now we have in
browsers non-safe areas.
That I'm not sure if you have encountered
this before as a web developer.
Because while you are working in
the browser, you don't care about this,
because the browser interface
takes care of that.
But now we are the app,
we are in a standalone app,
we need to care about that.
Look at this at the bottom,
let me do this so we can see.
I have a button here Learn that opens
actually frontendmaster.com, and
you can see that it opens in a browser
because it's a different scope, okay?
So I'm still in the Codepad M app,
but I have an inner browser there,
so it happens on Android and
iOS and desktop.
But I have a problem when-,
let's reload the app, oops.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: At the bottom
you can see that that button is on top
of that line that is actually
part of the gesture.
And it's not just a a visual problem,
it's actually a clickable area problem.
There is a whole area here that
is not actually clickable, so
the user won't be able to touch there,
that makes sense.
So I need to somehow move that, and
we can do that with
CSS Environmental Variables.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So there are some
constants available with M function
safe area in the top right, bottom left.
So we can apply that to,
you need to find the HTML element,
the selector that you want to
apply this to, okay, makes sense?
And that happens also at the left and
right when you are in landscape.
So you need to find a container and
apply this.
So we need to go here and find-,
when you go to the index.html,
I have a form, I have a toolbar,
I have a note.
I can apply maybe to the body first and
then start playing with this.
So I just copy and paste, I think you have
it also in the snippets to copy and paste.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: By the way,
this has one margin, okay,
one margin declaration.
There is no comma here, so
the colon is at the end,
if you are defining the four margin, okay?
Maybe body is not the best place,
because colors will not be right,
just to see if that works,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: By the way,
it's not taking many change, you say why.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
I'm killing the app,
I'm opening the app again
it's not taking my change.
>> Student 1: CSS file is cached.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: CSS file is
cached, forever actually forever.
Do we have any way to update that?
No if you want a way delete and
install the app again.
When we're using cache first,
if we don't have any button or
something now our UI,
they will do that forever.
That's why for now,
I'm going to comment this, because,
we didn't finish our app,
okay while debugging.
And remember I mentioned that
Chrome has better debugging tools.
So on Chrome, I have this update
on reload but not on iOS.
I don't have a way to force a reload.
So I need to go install the app again.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And this new
version should take my change, okay?
Actually, I'm not sure if
it's taking it anyway.
I shouldn't apply it to the body.
So I have, let's see.
Also I'm replacing this here,
that's why it's not working.
But believe me, before it was
because of the service worker.
So I have another body declaration, okay?
That is replacing the 0 with 0.
So it was replacing my declaration with 0,
okay?
Things like that,
now should I reinstall it?
I don't have cache first, so
no, I should just reopen, yeah.
Something when you're doing this,
when you're develop,
why you are developing maybe it's a good
idea to create a Refresh button within
your UI,
that's just called JavaScript Reload.
Okay, so then you can reload directly
from the PWA interface, okay make sense?
It's just that, not a big deal.
Also, what happens with,
is every browser supporting that?
Well what happens if
there is no safe area?
For example,
if you open this in the browser,
browsers typically don't
have the safe problem.
This has to do with mobile devices, with
rounded corners, and things like that.
The margin will be zero and maybe you
don't want zero, you want a minimum.
Okay, I want a minimum margin.
So then you can apply a second
argument that is the default value.
And what happens if a browser
doesn't support safe areas?
It's not common these days, but
then you provide two margin declaration.
I'm not sure if you know this in CSS,
it's a CSS rule, you can put two values,
and the browser will take the last
one that is that has valid values.
So if the browser is not
supporting the M function,
it will ignore it, and
it will keep the previous one, anyway.
Something that is I mean, it's not so
important, to be honest, but
if you're doing PWA,
sometimes we will find this problem.
Devices with a Notch.
When they have a notch,
also you have the problem of safe areas,
but we can solve that with safe areas,
the problem is that when you go landscape.
When you go landscape,
the problem is that by default,
the viewport goes only in the safe area.
And what you see here will
be your background color.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
that you define in the manifest.
But if you have an image the image
is not taking the whole width,
does that make sense?
Well, to solve the problem,
because your content is only there,
so your body in CSS is that one.
The rest is outside of your viewport,
outside of your Canvas.
You cannot render content
only on landscape.
So that's why you can ask for
cover viewport, and
then you save areas to
again add those margins.
What is cover viewport?
It's just an addition that you
add to your viewport metadata,
it's viewport fit cover.
In this case you are saying you know what,
I wanna take always 100% of the viewport
even if it's not safe, I don't care.
But I wanna have 100% of the canvas.
So when you do that, then now your content
will take the whole available space.
And the problem if you do
that is that by default now,
if you are rendering a calculator,
that calculator is behind the notch.
To solve a problem, you are margin,
using the safe areas we mentioned before,
yeah.
>> Student 2: How does a safe area
interact with the keyboard area?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's
interesting, the keyboard is always,
let me answer that,
it depends on the platform.
On IOS,
the keyboard is always over your PWA, so
it's not moving your PWA.
When you're doing native apps,
you have control of what you wanna do,
but not here.
On Android, there is an API that will help
you with that, let me show you the API.
And the API also adds some CSS property,
it's called the virtual keyboard API.
Does anyone know that that one existed?
The virtual keyboard API, full
control with the virtual keyboard API.
Let's go to the Chrome website.
So then it's actually exactly
what you were asking, okay?
So if you wanna render elements on
your PWA on top of the keyboard or
above the keyboard when
the keyboard appears and so on.
Well, you have an API in JavaScript,
so you can see here how it works and
some events.
You can specify if you want to
overlay the content or not.
And also you have some CSS
environmental variables that will
tell you if the keyword is there or
not, and vice versa.
It's not yet available in Safari,
I think that Safari should implement
it that at any time, but not yet.
Well, important Apple had
many meta tags available for
web apps before the web
manifest spec was created.
Okay, we mentioned a couple, we saw that
PWA compact was adding some of them,
don't add those meta tags if you don't
know what they are actually doing.
We already mentioned that, I gave you
already the warning spoiler before, but
one that I will show you now,
it's full screen in iOS,
it's kind of an old hack that still works.
Remember I mentioned that we
don't have full screen on iOS,
on iOS, it's only standalone,
the display mode only standalone.
But using Apple mobile
web app-status-bar-style,
black-translucent, exactly that.
What will happen is that you will
take 100% of the space for you,
but the status content will
actually be on top of it.
So in this case, you can see the clock and
you can see the battery status and
all the icons will appear,
they will appear, but now you can
render from the top content, okay?
It's kind of a full screen, in Android,
the status bar disappears completely, so
you don't see the clock,
okay you don't see the hour [COUGH].
So it's kind of a hack that
has been since forever on iOS.
With Web M manifest spec, there is
no way to actually implement that.